JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
President Trump touts the GOP's
new health
care bill, as Republicans
wrangle over how
to replace Obamacare.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead:
mirrors and
lights -- a traveling art
exhibit that pushes
boundaries out to infinity.
MIKA YOSHITAKE, Curator,
Hirshhorn Museum:
It's about filling a void that
she has experienced
that she's experienced as that
incessant energy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and Michael Gerson
are here to
take on the week's news.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
is warning
that Congress must act on a
Republican health
care bill to head off a crisis
with Obamacare.
He called in key House
congressional committee
chairs today to praise their
work, despite
opposition from Democrats,
medical groups
and some conservatives.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
We must act now to save
Americans from the
imploding Obamacare disaster.
Premiums have skyrocketed by
double digits,
and triple digits in some cases.
This is the time we're going to
get it done.
We're working together.
We have some great results.
We have tremendous spirit, and I
think it's
something that's just going to
happen very
shortly.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Joining me to
discuss the
American Health Care Act are
"NewsHour"'s
White House correspondent John
Yang and congressional
correspondent Lisa Desjardins.
Well, let's start with the
resistance in Congress.
The president in his tweet says
everything
is going smoothly, but on
Capitol Hill, not
so much.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's real and
significant.
Right now, if you look at the
House, they
can spare 21 Republican votes
and still pass
this.
But, by my count, there are
somewhere like
40 Republicans who are either
unsure or have
expressed clear doubts or even
no votes.
They have a lot of reasons for
concern.
One are the tax credits we have
talked on
the show before.
To some conservatives, that's
just another
government entitlement program.
They're hoping there's
negotiations ahead,
but it's not clear if there are.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, John, what
does the
White House do to try to make
sure that those
40 Republicans stay in line?
JOHN YANG: Well, the president
says that he
hasn't have to do much of
anything.
He points out that -- in the
meeting with
the House whips the other day,
he pointed
out his margin of victory in the
districts
of a lot those recalcitrant
House Republicans.
And he knows those numbers.
He knows what they won and he
knows what he
won.
He's going to go out on what
they call a full-court
press to sell this, but what
he's selling
is repealing the current law.
That's what he is trying make
this vote, not
a vote for the -- so much for
the proposal
that they have got on the table
now, but a
vote for repealing Obamacare.
So the question is, do you want
to go home
and say you voted against
repealing Obamacare?
HARI SREENIVASAN: There are
still those sticking
points.
Besides the tax credits, what
else is making
these Republicans hesitant?
LISA DESJARDINS: There's another
problem for
moderate Republicans as well,
some like, say,
Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania,
who has many
constituents on Medicaid or on
the Medicaid
expansion.
They're worried about coverage
and whether
many of their constituents are
going to lose
coverage.
And they're worried about the
Congressional
Budget Office score, which we
expect on Monday.
That is going to be a big factor
in how this
battle go.
This is kind of that wild
moment, Hari, where
people are still deciding, which
way will
the wind go?
And CBO is going to have an
effect on that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The White
House went out
of its way to sort of discredit
the CBO already
before the numbers came out just
yesterday.
JOHN YANG: It's gaming the ref.
They have already said --
they're already
preparing themselves for a bad
score.
They said -- Sean Spicer said if
you're looking
for accuracy, the CBO is the
wrong place to
look.
So they're already discrediting
before it
even comes out.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But a couple
of kind of
mixed messages that we see here
is, we see
Paul Ryan on the one hand
saying, this is
it, this is the final thing.
And then sometimes we also hear
from other
people that this is open to
negotiation, this
is a process.
Which is it?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
It's very curious.
Behind closed doors,
conservatives have said
the president has told them in
meetings this
week with people like Jim Jordan
that he is
listening, that he's willing to
change some
things they don't like.
But, publicly, that's not what
the message
is.
And Paul Ryan used a very
important word yesterday.
He said this is a binary
decision.
Translation, ultimatum.
Just like John was saying,
either you vote
for this, or, if you vote no,
that is a vote
for Obamacare.
That drives these conservatives
crazy, because
they don't see the choice that
way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, so
it's either
you're with us or you're with
Obamacare.
JOHN YANG: Although the
president says -- or
Sean Spicer said in his
briefings today, it's
not so much the details that the
president
is looking at.
He laid out five principles for
this bill
in his speech to Congress.
As long as those five principles
are met,
he really doesn't care what the
details are.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
John Yang, Lisa
Desjardins, thank you both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
U.S. economy cranked out more
jobs in February.
The Labor Department reports
that U.S. employers
added a net of 235,000 new
positions.
The unemployment rate dipped
slightly to 4.7
percent, as more people began
looking for
work.
During the campaign, then
candidate Trump
dismissed the jobs data as
phony.
Today, a White House spokesman
said, they
may have been phony in the past,
but they're
very real now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It turns out
lawyers for
former National Security Adviser
Michael Flynn
told the Trump transition team
before the
inauguration that he might have
to register
as a foreign agent.
That's because Flynn had lobbied
for the Turkish
government during the campaign,
before he
joined the Trump administration.
White House Press Secretary Sean
Spicer said
today that Flynn's lawyers spoke
to transition
lawyers, and he defended the
vetting process.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
He was also the head of the
department -- the
Defense Intelligence Agency,
unbelievably
qualified, 40 years in the
military with impeccable
credentials.
So, what is it that he -- what
is exactly
are you getting at?
Because, so far, he has
impeccable credentials,
he had a stellar career in the
military, widely
respected.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Flynn was
fired last month
when it came out that he had had
contacts
with the Russian ambassador to
the U.S., but
misled the vice president and
others about
it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Native Americans
and their
supporters rallied outside the
White House
today against the Dakota Access
oil pipeline.
Their march started at the Army
Corps of Engineers
headquarters and culminated with
a gathering
next to the executive mansion.
They have also been staging
protests on the
National Mall this week.
The final phase of the pipeline
is under construction
in North Dakota.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Volkswagen has
pleaded guilty
to conspiracy and obstruction of
justice in
its emissions cheating scandal.
The German automaker entered the
plea in federal
court in Detroit.
It agreed to pay $4.3 billion in
penalties.
The case involved nearly 600,000
diesel vehicles
sold in the U.S.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In South Korea,
President Park
Geun-hye was officially ousted
today by the
nation's highest court.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner has the story.
MARGARET WARNER: The
constitutional court's
verdict, announced in Seoul, was
unanimous.
Upholding the impeachment of
South Korea's
President Park, it removed her
from office
a stunning fall from power.
Streets overflowed with
demonstrators, many
celebrating the ouster of the
country's first
female leader.
WOMAN (through translator): The
people gave
her the power to serve.
But she filled her own pocket,
disrupted social
order and undermined democracy.
MARGARET WARNER: Others
protested the verdict,
saying Park's removal leaves
South Korea at
risk.
WOMAN (through translator): We
should be thankful
to president Park for protecting
our nation.
Young people these days don't
know that.
It's only been 67 years since
the Korean War
erupted.
We could soon see another
similar tragedy
happen.
MARGARET WARNER: Two people died
during today's
protests, and at least 30 were
hurt.
All of this follows Park's
suspension from
office in December.
Now she may face criminal
charges of conspiring
to let childhood friend Choi
Soon-sil meddle
in state affairs and extort
money from businesses,
including Samsung, whose own
chief is now
on trial for bribery.
The political turmoil in South
Korea comes
at a moment of high tensions in
the region.
North Korea test-fired a barrage
of long-range
missiles this week, as the U.S.
and South
Korea conducted annual joint
military exercises.
And China is now protesting U.S.
plans to
deploy a new missile defense
system in the
South.
The Pentagon shipped components
of the so-called
THAAD defense system to South
Korea this week.
Washington says it's designed to
protect against
a North Korean attack, not to
threaten China.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
is likely
to reinforce that message, as he
visits South
Korea next week.
Meanwhile, a caretaker president
is in place
while the country gets ready to
hold elections
in the next 60 days.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The White House
said today
the U.S. expects to continue to
work with
South Korea as a friend and
ally.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The president
of Guatemala
called today for reforms after a
deadly fire
at a crowded shelter for abused
teens.
Meanwhile, the death toll in
Wednesday's deadly
blaze rose to 37.
Police say some of the girls set
fire to mattresses
to protest abuses.
Families of victims held a
candlelight vigil
and protest last night to call
for an investigation.
They also demanded the
president's resignation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.N. Human
Rights Office
accused Turkey today of
widespread killings
and other abuses, mostly against
minority
Kurds.
Investigators said roughly 2,000
people died
during security operations in
Southeastern
Turkey over 18 months.
The U.N. told of entire
neighborhoods destroyed,
displacing several hundred
thousand people.
In Geneva, a U.N. spokesman said
Turkey is
hindering a thorough
investigation.
RUPERT COLVILLE, Spokesman,
United Nations
High Commissioner for Human
Rights: It appears
that not a single suspect was
apprehended
and not a single individual was
prosecuted
for violations that occurred
during this period.
The government of Turkey has
repeatedly failed
to grant us access, but has
nevertheless contested
the veracity of the very serious
allegations
made in this report.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Turkish
government says
that 800 of the dead were
troops, and that
many others were Kurdish rebels.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Pope Francis
has now signaled
that he'd consider letting some
married men
become priests, but with strict
limits.
He told a German newspaper the
men would have
to be older, with proven
character.
and they'd serve only where
there's a shortage
of clergy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, there's
word that the death of Russia's
U.N. ambassador
was due to a heart attack.
Vitaly Churkin collapsed in his
office last
month.
The Associated Press cites a
senior New York
City official who says there's
no sign of
foul play.
The State Department has asked
the city not
to release the autopsy results,
in accordance
with diplomatic protocol.
HARI SREENIVASAN: House
Republicans pushed
through legislation today to
sanction lawyers
and others who file frivolous
lawsuits in
federal courts.
It doesn't change the standard
for determining
whether a suit is frivolous, but
it does require
judges to impose penalties.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's being
reported tonight
that President Trump will
nominate Dr. Scott
Gottlieb to be commissioner of
the Food and
Drug Administration.
Wire service accounts say that
he would be
tasked with speeding the drug
approval process.
Gottlieb served previously as a
deputy FDA
commissioner and is currently a
partner in
a venture capital firm.
And on Wall Street today, the
Dow Jones industrial
average gained 44 points to
close near 20903.
The Nasdaq rose almost 23, and
the S&P 500
added seven.
For the week, all three indexes
were down
slightly.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still to come
on the "NewsHour":
perspective on the replacement
health care
plan from a key GOP committee
chair; conduct
unbecoming in the U.S. armed
forces; Mark
Shields and Michael Gerson take
on the week's
political news; and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Before the
congressional Republicans'
health care plan can get a final
vote in the
House of Representatives, it
needs to clear
one more hurdle: the House
Budget Committee.
We turn now to the chairman of
that committee.
She's Representative Diane
Black.
She was among a handful of
Republican leaders
who met with the president at
the White House
today, and she joins us from
Nashville, Tennessee.
Chairman Black, thank you very
much for talking
with us.
So, when this bill went through
the other
two committees in the House,
Ways and Means
and Energy and Commerce, vote
was along party
lines.
All the Republicans voted for
it.
Is that going to happen on the
Budget Committee
next week?
REP.
DIANE BLACK (R), Tennessee: I
think we will
probably see a very similar
thing.
I don't anticipate that we will
have any Democrat
votes with us, but we will
continue to move
along in the process and give
them the opportunity
to ask the questions and to make
that decision
whether they would like to vote
with us or
not.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about
Republicans?
Do you expect any defections?
REP.
DIANE BLACK: I anticipate we
will have a lot
of good conversation, as we have
in the Ways
and Means Committee, of which I
am a member.
After 18 hours of very good
dialogue and making
a lot of good points, I
anticipate that we
will have all members of our
committee supporting
this measure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is your
answer to the
conservative complaint or
concern at this
point that what you have in this
legislation,
among other things, is what they
call a new
entitlement program with these
refundable
tax credits?
REP.
DIANE BLACK: Well, this is a way
in which
we can give people an
opportunity.
And it's a very small portion of
our population.
You know, most people have their
insurance
through their employer.
But we have got about 4 percent
of -- 4 to
5 percent of our population who
doesn't have
that opportunity.
And so this gives them, as those
who have
insurance through their
employer, that is
a tax-free benefit that they
have.
And for those who aren't as
fortunate to have
an employer that provides that
insurance,
this gives them an opportunity
to be able
to be in the marketplace.
And the important part of this
is that they
are in the marketplace where
they can make
a decision about who it is that
they would
like to get their insurance
through.
So we believe this is a fairness
issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as you know,
your conservative
colleagues are saying they see
it's a government
guarantee and they don't like
it.
REP.
DIANE BLACK: Well, they have
that opportunity
to make those comments and make
their points.
And that's what the whole
process is about.
That's the great thing about
being in the
legislature, is a lot of good
discussion and
sometimes really heavy
conversations.
But I think, at the end of the
day, that you're
going to see that this bill is
going to be
successful, and that's because
our health
care system right now is
failing.
You know what?
Here in the state of Tennessee,
my great state,
we actually have parts of our
state that have
no insurers left in the
marketplace.
And so we have got to rescue
people.
We get calls in our office every
day about
premiums going up, and co-pays
and to a point
where people say, I can't afford
it anymore,
please help us out.
And so that's what we're
attempting to do
is to be able to rescue people,
so they can
get patient care or
patient-centered health
insurance that will be what they
want at a
price they can afford.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me ask
you about
the complaints on the other side
from Democrats
and from moderates in your own
party who are
saying they're concerned that
people who cannot
-- or can barely afford health
coverage right
now will not be able to afford
it, with the
Medicaid changes, changing the
way Medicaid
is handled by the year 2020.
There is even some conversation
about moving
that earlier.
In your own state of Tennessee,
there was
a statement today from the
hospital association
saying they're concerned about
what they say
are 230,000 Tennesseans who
depend on the
kind of coverage in the existing
law.
How will you deal with that?
REP.
DIANE BLACK: Well, first of all,
we want to
make sure everyone knows that
we're not going
to pull the rug out from
underneath of them.
But what we do want do is open
the marketplace
back up again and allow more
competition.
We have had so many of the
insurance companies,
and look at the co-ops that were
out there.
Out of the 23 co-ops, 18 of them
are gone,
which meant here in my state,
when lost that
co-op, over 20,000 people that
were in that
health care policy lost their
insurance, because
you just can't afford it.
When it is government-run, and
there are so
many requirements put on it, it
drives the
cost of the policy up.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what about --
excuse me.
REP.
DIANE BLACK: That's OK.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I just want to
say, what about
those 230,000 Tennesseans who
were cited by
the hospital association in your
state as
standing to lose coverage?
REP.
DIANE BLACK: Well, we're --
they're not going
to lose coverage.
And that's what I want people to
know.
I want people to understand we
are not pulling
the rug out.
We are still going to have
Medicaid there
for them, but it is going to be
changed in
the way it's done where it's
more patient-centered.
We're also going to give states
an opportunity
to make the decision about how
they best can
use those dollars.
What's good for New York and
California is
not necessarily what's good for
here in the
state of Tennessee.
And we will allow the governor
here in our
state to make the decision about
how best
to spend those dollars that are
sent down
from Washington for Medicaid and
for those
that are in that space.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very quick final
question,
Chairman Black, and that is the
Congressional
Budget Office expected to put
out its projections
on how many people will be
covered, how many
will lose coverage.
Will your committee look at that
information,
take it seriously, or,, as the
White House
is suggesting, that it really
doesn't matter
what the Congressional Budget
Office says?
REP.
DIANE BLACK: Well, we always
take what the
Congressional Budget Office
gives us very
seriously, and we will look at
that.
It may be that, when we get
those scores back,
that we do have to tweak some
things one way
or the other.
It probably will not be done in
the House
Budget Committee.
It will be done through another
process once
it gets into the rules.
But we do take that seriously,
and we will
be looking at that and making
some decisions
about whether there needs to be
some adjustments.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Chairman Diane
Black, chairman
of the House Budget Committee,
we thank you
for talking with us.
REP.
DIANE BLACK: You're very
welcome.
Thank you for having me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We turn now to
a growing
scandal in the U.S. Marine
Corps, where male
Marines have been caught sharing
sexually
explicit photos of female
Marines without
their consent.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It started on
a private
Facebook page called Marines
United, hundreds
of explicit photographs of
female Marines,
followed by endless obscene,
degrading comments.
Some of the photos appear to
have been taken
consensually, but others were
not.
None of the women identified so
far said they
had agreed to their photos being
posted this
way.
The Facebook page is gone, but
many of the
photos -- these are some of the
tamer ones
-- have now been uploaded to
other Web sites.
Military officials have launched
an investigation.
And, today, Defense Secretary
James Mattis,
a former Marine himself, called
these acts
egregious violations of the
fundamental values.
The commandant of the Marine
Corps, General
Robert Neller, also expressed
his dismay.
GEN.
ROBERT NELLER, Commandant of the
U.S. Marine
Corps: These allegations
themselves, they
undermine everything that we
stand for as
a Marine Corps and as Marines:
discipline,
honor, professionalism, and
respect and trust
amongst each other.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For more on
this, I'm joined
by retired Colonel Mary
Reinwald.
She spent 27 years in the Corps
and now edits
"Leatherneck" magazine, written
for the Marine
Corps community.
Nice to see you again.
Sorry it's under these
circumstances.
COL.
MARY REINWALD, (RET.), U.S.
Marine Corps:
Tell me, when you first heard
about this,
what was your reaction?
I was angry.
I was absolutely angry, because,
you know,
both General Neller and General
Mattis mentioned
in their comments that, you
know, this is
about honor.
And the Marines who did these
type of things,
they don't have the honor that
we value as
Marines.
I was ashamed.
I was ashamed for my Marine
Corps.
And I was mad for my fellow
Marines.
I was mad for my fellow male
Marines, because
the vast majority of male
Marines don't do
this type of behavior.
They are honorable, they are
decent, and they're
the type of humans that
everybody should aspire
to.
And now there is a whole segment
of our country
who will believe this is what
Marines do.
And it's not.
It's absolutely not.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And what have
you been hearing
from other Marines?
I know you talk to them on a
daily basis.
What do you hear from them?
COL.
MARY REINWALD: I do.
I have many friends that are
still on active
duty.
I also talked to a female Marine
whose picture
was posted on the Web site.
And it was just an innocuous
picture from
her Instagram with her and some
other female
Marines.
There was nothing wrong with it.
They were out in public.
And the photo was taken and
posted on the
Web site.
And they asked in terms of her
attractiveness,
but they asked in much cruder
terms than I
would use.
She is an officer Marine.
She's a pilot.
She's got an exemplary record.
She's one of the future leaders
of our Corps.
And we have these individuals
who decided
that they were going to be
disrespectful and
vile and not uphold our ethos.
How dare they?
I absolutely believe that our
culture has
some role to play in all of
this, social media.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You mean
American culture
more broadly?
COL.
MARY REINWALD: American culture
more broadly.
And it's very easy to get on
social media
and be anonymous.
And thing is, these individuals
-- and I really
do hesitate to call them Marines
-- if these
individuals weren't the cowards
that they
are, they would be putting their
names up
there.
They would be proudly
proclaiming their misogyny
and their disrespect toward
female Marines.
But this almost gang mentality
on whatever
social media account, whether
it's Facebook
or some of the others, where
they feed off
each other, I have no respect
for them, because
they wouldn't do it in public.
They wouldn't do it in front of
the commandant.
But they do it behind the
anonymity of both
Facebook and the Web.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As you well
know, the Marine
Corps and all the other branches
of the services
are integrating women into
combat roles.
That's the first reason I spoke
to you several
months ago.
COL.
MARY REINWALD: Right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
it's coincidental
that the Corps is moving women
into these
more forward roles at the same
time that this
kind of a scandal breaks out?
COL.
MARY REINWALD: I don't know that
it's necessarily
coincidental.
There is probably an element of
that.
It's brought out more of the
individuals who
think back -- you know, have the
mentality
from 50 years ago: Women don't
belong in the
infantry, so, by God, we're
going to be disrespectful
to all of them.
So, you can't -- you cannot
dispute the timing
in many ways.
But I think these guys were
always there.
There was always an element, a
very, very
small element who had no problem
saying these
things.
And now it's just easier to say.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And it's just
amplified.
COL.
MARY REINWALD: It's amplified.
And once one makes one comment,
then the others
feel like, hey, he said it, so I
can say it,
too, because everybody feels
this way.
Well, everybody doesn't feel
This is not the majority of
Marines.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I know you're
also a great
champion of women going into the
Marine Corps.
COL.
MARY REINWALD: Absolutely.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What do you
think that this
kind of a thing does to those
women who are
either just entering the Corps
or aspire to
enter the Corps?
COL.
MARY REINWALD: I wouldn't doubt
for a minute
that it would make them pause
and ask them
-- and have them ask themselves,
say, hey,
is this what I want to join?
Is the organization -- is this
who I want
to be?
But I would reassure them and
say, again,
that this is not the majority of
Marines.
Ironically, I was at the United
States Naval
Academy last night, speaking to
some future
female Marines, along with Major
General Lori
Reynolds, the senior female on
active duty
in the Marine Corps.
I was heartened by what I heard.
I was thrilled by what not only
Major General
Reynolds said, but the other
female Marines
who are on active duty with me,
who all echo
in many ways what I said.
Our good experiences in the
Marine Corps vastly
outweigh our bad experiences.
And we would encourage any
American young
lady today to join the Marine
Corps.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Mary Reinwald,
thanks so much for being here.
COL.
MARY REINWALD: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
new art exhibit
creates a never-ending world;
and why the
pursuit for happiness should
actually be a
search for meaning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the
analysis of Shields
and Gerson.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
Washington Post columnist
Michael Gerson.
David Brooks is away.
And welcome to both of you.
So, a lot going on this week,
Mark and Michael.
Let's start, Mark, though, with
we got a really
good sense or a better sense
this week of
what it is that Republicans in
the House and
the White House want to do in
terms of replacing
the Affordable Care Act,
Obamacare.
What do we make of this?
Is this something that has the
elements of
a piece of legislation that can
survive?
MARK SHIELDS: I don't think so,
Judy.
And I guess the one point I
would disagree
with you is, agreement between
the White House
and the Republicans in Congress.
To listen to Speaker Paul Ryan,
this is the
last stage out of Dodge.
This is the best and only chance
the Republicans
are going to have to repeal,
fulfill that
pledge that they have made now
for seven years
to repeal Obamacare and come up
with their
own plan, whereas the White
House, in the
words of the president, is, I'm
for it, but
we can deal, we can negotiate.
So I'm not sure that they're on
the same page
or have basically the same
commitment to this
legislation.
That's why I just -- I think
it's in precarious
position right now.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Even though it's
moved through
these two committees?
And we just spoke to the
chairman of the Budget
Committee.
And she says she expects it to
go flying through.
MARK SHIELDS: She does.
But the question was, how many
hundred thousand
Tennesseans will lose health
care?
The estimates, Judy, quite
frankly, range
from 10 million to 15 million
now.
All the promises of transparency
the Republicans
made about going to have open
hearings, open
votes, they will not vote, that
Budget Committee
headed by Congresswoman Black,
until -- they
will not release the
Congressional Budget
Office scoring to tell you how
many people
are going to lose it and what
it's going to
cost until that happens.
It's all being sort of
railroaded through
the Republican House.
But I don't see it surviving.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see it
on the substance,
Michael?
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, on the
substance, there
is a set of conservative reform
ideas that
have been developing, but this
isn't it.
This is a jerry-rigged system to
try to achieve
some of the goals of Obamacare
by slightly
modifying this, by changing
that.
And the result is incoherent.
It has alienated the left
because of the number
of people that will be off the
system.
It's alienated the right because
there are
some people that wanted a true
repeal.
This isn't that type of
approach.
So, I think it's -- right now,
you know, it
has the virtue or the drawback
of pleasing
no one, actually, in this system
on left to
right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why did it come
to this?
Why after all the talk
throughout the campaign?
Before anything else, you knew
that this president
was going to be -- he said,
we're going to
deal with Obamacare, we're going
to get rid
of it.
Why has it come to this, then?
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, I think
that President
Trump said it when he acted
shocked that health
care is complex.
You remember him saying that?
This is difficult.
I mean, Obamacare has many
faults and many
problems, but it has succeed in
creating a
set of expectations about
preexisting conditions
and coverage that Republicans
now have to
respond to.
And their response, I think, is
kind of a
makeshift response right now.
But I think Obamacare, in that
way, has triumphed.
It has created a set of
expectations Republicans
have to meet.
And it's very difficult to do,
to structure
a system to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you still
have Republicans,
Mark, who are arguing the whole
thing needs
to be completely thrown out.
The Freedom Caucus group came
out this week
and said throw the whole thing
out and start
from scratch.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, in fairness,
the Freedom
Caucus, that's how they won a
majority in
2010, on the pledge to do that,
to repeal
completely Obamacare.
And I agree with Michael.
I would say this.
Two other things I would add,
Joe Manchin,
Democratic senator from West
Virginia, who
is in a difficult, now
red-leaning state now,
made an observation, I think,
that is so fundamentally
true.
He said people, American voters,
may not remember
who gave you something, but they
will remember
who took it away.
MICHAEL GERSON: Yes.
MARK SHIELDS: And I think this
is the problem
the Republicans are facing.
The second point is, Judy,
what's holding
this together right now is that
it's not really
a health care plan.
And it's not really a repeal.
What it is, is a tax cut.
The top nine-tenths of 1 percent
of Americans
will receive $267 billion in tax
cuts over
the next 10 years.
And, quite bluntly put, when
this is scored,
when the numbers come out from
the Congressional
Budget Office, all you have to
do is go to
the testimony at the hearings of
Betsy DeVos
and Steve Mnuchin and Wilbur
Ross and Gary
Cohn and all of the wealthy and
exactly what
this tax cut will mean for them
individually,
as single moms with two kids
lose their Medicaid
coverage under it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it sounds
like, Michael,
the White House is prepared to
dismiss the
CBO numbers, or at least to
discount them.
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, this is
actually a difference
in strategy.
There has been a conflict
between the House
leadership and the
administration on whether
to attack CBO or not as an
authority in this.
This is a tendency of this
administration,
to attack institutions, to
undermine the credibility
of institutions that are
independent sources
of truth and analysis.
I think that would be a terrible
mistake in
this case.
CBO is a fairly respected
approach, not perfect.
But I think going after it would
indicate
a kind of disturbing tendency to
try to undermine
other institutions in our
system, for their
own benefit.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, where do we
see this headed,
Mark, politically?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think it's
going to
founder.
I really do.
We're already getting the
signals from the
Republicans in the Senate, both
for the reasons
that Michael cited on the loss
of coverage.
A state like Alaska is going to
take an enormous
hit.
But even from Tom Cotton, the
conservative,
young conservative rising star
from Arkansas,
saying, slow down, it couldn't
pass the Senate
So, I think there are problems.
I think you don't get Mitch
McConnell, the
sense that he's waiting for it
and just impatient
to get it over there to pass it,
because I
don't think he thinks he can.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you see
as the prospects?
MICHAEL GERSON: I think it had a
very rocky
start and it's going to get
rockier, particularly
because of the CBO estimates
that Mark is
exactly right, could show
upwards of 12 million
people losing coverage.
And that will dominate
discussion of this
bill in the next stage, and as
it gets very
unfavorable to the
administration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You don't think
the administration
will be able to, again,
discount, dismiss
and say, well, you know, they
were wrong before?
We heard that from the White
House press secretary.
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, they could
try to conduct
a campaign, go to the districts
of members,
pressure them, call out their
Internet legions.
They could try to press on this.
But, if it happens that way, it
will only
happen through pressure, and not
through enthusiasm.
That's not what we're -- we're
not seeing
much enthusiasm.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, let's
turn to the
other big story of the week.
And it's Russia in all its
different forms.
Mark, you had the president
tweeting last
Saturday morning that President
Obama was
behind a wiretap as, evidently
part of the
Russia investigation.
You have stories.
We know that, just yesterday,
the FBI director
met with Republican leaders on
the Hill to
brief them on the latest.
We don't know what was said.
And there's a story in The New
York Times
today that the FBI doesn't see a
clear connection
between the Trump campaign and
Russia, and
yet all these bits and pieces
keep coming.
Do we have any more clarity on
Russia and
the Trump campaign and
transition today than
we did a month ago?
MARK SHIELDS: I don't see it,
Judy.
I mean, I think there's
circumstantial evidence
of contacts or relationships
certainly with
those within the Trump world
throughout the
campaign we have.
But there isn't a gun, let alone
a smoking
gun.
But we do have -- as a
consequence of what
the president did last Saturday,
we have got
pressure for greater, more
intense and more
public hearings and
investigations.
And I will just say on this the
tweet last
Saturday was so grave.
I mean, this is the 45th
president of the
United States accusing the 44th
president
of the United States of criminal
activity,
and with no basis, no evidence,
no context,
no witnesses, nothing.
And, 30 minutes later, he tweets
again about
Arnold Schwarzenegger's ratings
on "Celebrity
Apprentice."
He has just jeopardized the
relationship between
the president who preceded him.
Every president needs other
presidents.
They need the relationship.
But he's just done something so
grave and
inflicted such a major wound on
the body politic.
It won't heal.
MICHAEL GERSON: I think there
are billows
of smoke here.
I mean, I think...
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you mean?
MICHAEL GERSON: I think there
are lots of
ties that are being discovered
between the
Trump inner circle and Russia.
And, in fact, the attorney
general had to
recuse himself because of
unreported contact.
And we have learned that Flynn,
the former
national security adviser, was
doing work
on behalf of individuals
associated with the
Turkish government.
So, you're creating the
impression of a foreign
policy bought and sold by
dictators.
This is quite serious.
This is an unfolding, ongoing
ethics disaster
at the highest levels, I think
we're seeing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, again --
Mark.
MARK SHIELDS: Just one thing I
want to point
out, Judy.
At the time of the Cuban Missile
Crisis, when
the world stood at the brink,
Soviets and
America, over the Cuban missiles
in Cuba,
President Kennedy sent Dean
Acheson, a former
secretary of state, to see
General Charles
de Gaulle to tell him exactly,
brief him personally,
as the president's emissary, on
what was going
on.
At the end of that talk, he said
to General
de Gaulle, I have been
authorized by the president
to show you the photographic
evidence we have,
and for your eyes only.
And General de Gaulle said, no,
no, no, that's
not necessary.
All I need is the word of the
president of
the United States.
There comes a time in every
administration
when you need the president to
be credible,
the president to have the trust
and confidence
of leaders around the world in a
time of crisis.
And I can see no reason that
anybody would
ever say this about Donald
Trump: All I need
is the word of the president of
the United
States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael, how does
this administration
get beyond this?
Are we looking now at something
that is just
going to go on for months and
months, if not
years?
MICHAEL GERSON: Well, I think
we're seeing
that self-investigation through
the attorney
general is not going to be
useful in this
case.
Someone is going to have to have
a real inquiry
here.
You could do a select committee.
You could do a special
prosecutor.
You do some other voice of
authority here.
The FBI doesn't have a huge
amount of credibility,
particularly given what Comey
did in the election,
which may have helped Trump more
than the
Russians did.
I think the administration,
whenever you hear
the phrase "Sean Spicer says,"
it makes the
statement more incredible, not
more credible.
And I think that we have a
Congress that's
quite politicized on this set of
issues.
We're going to need some type of
independent
voice to determine what's
happening in this
case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, on that
note, we shake
our heads.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Gerson,
Mark Shields,
thank you both.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
MICHAEL GERSON: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There's a lot
going on in
the political world of
Washington these days,
but the hottest ticket in town
may be for
a museum exhibition by a
Japanese artist exploring
worlds well beyond today's
headlines.
Jeffrey Brown has our story.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's called an
Infinity Mirror
Room, and the stretching out of
time and space,
an effect created through the
use of lights,
reflection and objects, is one
of the obsessions
of artist Yayoi Kusama.
Right now at Washington's
Hirshhorn Museum,
people are lining up to
experience her world
of whimsy, color, shapes, and
peeks into the
beyond.
Museum director Melissa Chiu:
MELISSA CHIU, Director,
Smithsonian's Hirshhorn
Museum: There are fewer and
fewer moments
today that you're alone in
something that
feels universal.
You are there in amongst the
cosmos in one
piece.
It's just light.
And it's a kind of -- it's very
poignant and
very compelling.
JEFFREY BROWN: Even as the wider
world has
caught on, Kusama has in fact
been a much-loved
star in the art world since the
early 1960s,
after coming to New York from
her native Japan.
Her earliest works already
displayed motifs
that remain to this day, notably
the repetition
of forms, especially simple
marks and polka
dots, that Kusama gives a more
cosmic significance,
as in her series of paintings
called "Infinity
Nets."
In an interview with Hirshhorn
curators in
December, the 87-year-old
artist, as colorful
as her work, spoke of her
attempt to reach
the infinite through the
repetition of images.
YAYOI KUSAMA, Artist (through
translator):
The same things piled one on top
of another
creates an expanding world that
reaches out
to the edges of the universe.
That is the simple image I have.
This effect of continual
repetition calls
out to the human senses, and, in
return, deep
inside of our hearts, we yearn
for true amazement.
JEFFREY BROWN: Curator Mika
Yoshitake put
together the exhibition.
MIKA YOSHITAKE, Curator,
Hirshhorn Museum:
Her work is very
process-oriented, meaning
that there is a very lengthy,
you know, physical
labor that goes on, that the
repetition of
certain motifs like the nets or
the polka
dots, and they -- it kind of
expands organically.
JEFFREY BROWN: That
compulsiveness is there
in sculptures of phallic forms:
a rowboat
titled "Violet Obsession,"
furniture that
you might not want to sit in,
but Kusama herself
was happy to, and happy to be
photographed
in.
In fact, she often brought
herself into the
picture, a polka dotted,
kimono-wearing, downtown
'60s art world figure known for
creating happenings
on the streets, sometimes with
nudes, sometimes
protesting the Vietnam War.
She also began to make the
Infinity Mirror
Rooms, eventually 20 in all, six
at the center
of this new exhibition, the most
ever gathered
together.
Part of the attraction of
Kusama's work clearly
is the fun house effect.
I mean, here I am, with
cameraman Malcolm,
in a field of pumpkins that
stretches on,
yes, to infinity.
MIKA YOSHITAKE: It's about life.
It's about confronting our
mortality.
It's about filling a void that
she has experienced.
And that incessant energy, a
desire to connect
with people, I think it's about
the clarity
of vision and also perception.
JEFFREY BROWN: But Kusama's
story is more
complicated.
She suffered from hallucinations
from childhood,
and experienced early trauma
from being forced
by her mother to spy on her
father as he had
affairs.
She had a breakdown in the 1970s
that forced
her to return to Japan.
And, for more than 40 years,
she's voluntarily
lived in a psychiatric hospital,
even as she's
continued to work in a studio a
block away,
making what she's referred to as
art medicine.
MIKA YOSHITAKE: Art for her is a
form of therapy.
So she needs the art, or else
she will probably
not survive.
She is somebody who needs to
have a ritual
every day of, you know,
painting.
JEFFREY BROWN: Certainly, her
work brought
a good deal of pleasure at the
Hirshhorn exhibition,
especially in the Obliteration
Room, a pristine
white-walled space in which
visitors were
invited to join in the
art-making by adding
dots of their own.
Captured in time-lapse video,
the room was
being transformed, just as
Kusama intended,
according to museum director
Chiu.
MELISSA CHIU: The word
obliteration has a
very harsh kind of meaning, but,
for her this
was, in a way, how she thinks
about her art,
that her art is transforming her
own life,
helping her to deal with life,
but also potentially
allowing others to interact with
it here in
this room.
JEFFREY BROWN: Museum-goers
couldn't resist,
and neither could I.
So, if I put it like this...
MELISSA CHIU: Put wherever you
like, Jeff.
(LAUGHTER)
MELISSA CHIU: So, balancing.
See how he's balancing?
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
Yes.
MELISSA CHIU: You could create
patterns from
randomness.
As you can see, some people
couldn't resist
and they have tried to create a
line with
their dots.
But all bets are off.
You can do whatever you like.
JEFFREY BROWN: There's a lot of
humor and
a lot of pain in the work of
Yayoi Kusama,
who continues to put in full
days at her studio
creating new paintings and
sculptures, even
as record crowds here flock to
see the results.
From the Hirshhorn Museum in
Washington, D.C.,
I'm Jeffrey Brown for the "PBS
NewsHour."
HARI SREENIVASAN: The exhibition
is in Washington
through May 14.
Then, for two years, it travels
to Seattle,
Los Angeles, Toronto, Cleveland,
and Atlanta.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
And we will be back shortly with
a look at
the meaning of happiness with a
"NewsHour"
essay.
But, first, take a moment to
hear from your
local PBS station.
It's a chance to offer your
support, which
helps keep programs like ours on
the air.
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally, an
essay from Emily
Esfahani Smith.
She is trained in psychology,
and author of
the recent book "The Power of
Meaning."
An editor at Stanford
University's Hoover
Institution, tonight, Emily
offers her Humble
Opinion on what we should search
for.
EMILY ESFAHANI SMITH, Author,
"The Power of
Meaning: Crafting a Life That
Matters": In
recent years, psychologists have
started looking
more closely at how the
single-minded pursuit
of happiness affects us, and
they have come
to what seems like a
counterintuitive conclusion:
Chasing happiness and obsessing
over it, the
way our culture encourages us to
do, can actually
make people unhappy and lonely.
But it's different when we set
another goal
for ourselves, when we search
for and pursue
meaning in life.
Human beings are creatures that
yearn for
meaning.
When we look up at the stars,
for example,
we don't see random balls of
fire.
We see swans and bears, we tell
stories and
myths, and we wonder about where
we came from,
our place in the universe, and
how we can
make our lives count.
The same questions lie at the
center of much
great art, literature, and
philosophy.
The first great work of human
literature,
"The Epic of Gilgamesh," is
about a hero's
quest to figure out how to live,
given the
fact that he will die.
And in the centuries since
Gilgamesh's tale
was told, that quest has
remained as urgent
as ever.
We all want to know that our
lives amount
to more than the sum of our
experiences.
We all need a why to help us get
through the
good and the bad of life.
So, what is a meaningful life?
Social science points to one
defining feature.
You connect and contribute to
something beyond
yourself.
That could be
your family, your work, nature,
or God.
And when
people say their lives are
meaningful, it's
because three conditions have
been satisfied:
They believe their lives matter,
they have
a sense of purpose that drives
them forward,
and they think their lives are
coherent and
make sense.
It sounds like a lot, but that
last point
is something you can do right
now.
People tell me the simple act of
storytelling
gives meaning, or can at least
clear the path
to it.
That, I think, might explain the
rise of rap
and hip-hop and the popularity
of the radio
series "StoryCorps" and "The
Moth."
Making a narrative out of the
events in your
life provides clarity.
It offers a framework that goes
beyond the
day-to-day.
It's the act itself, and not
necessarily sharing
their story with others, that
helps people
make sense of themselves and
their lives.
And we all have the power to
tell or to re-tell
our life story in more positive
ways.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: Why do humans have brains
the size they
are?
It's a mystery, but a new
mathematical model
may help scientists solve that
question.
Also, for the first time, a
major sports gear
company has designed a sporty
hijab.
You can read more about how they
created their
design, with feedback from
athletes who wear
a head scarf.
That's on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
That is -- and coming up
tomorrow night on
"PBS NewsHour Weekend."
And we will be back right here
on Monday with
former Vice President Al Gore,
who looks at
"The Assault on Reason" in the
wake of the
2016 presidential election --
that's his book
-- and the beginning of the
Trump presidency.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and we will see you
soon.